---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Open Source
A community-driven development model where people help each other improve the software to fit their individual and collective needs.  Open source can lead to stronger code and better products, but it requires careful moderation and can impede monetization for some types of projects.  

## Projects
* Mono-C#
  * Mono is an open source implementation of the C# specification.  I spend a lot of my time developing for Unity, and through this I found what might be my favorite language, C#.  Mono allows me to write C# on Mac, and for that I'm very thankful.  Without this, Unity wouldn't be able to use C#, and a lot of its flexibility would have been lost as a result.  An alternative would be C++, a beast of a language, making Unity far less accessible.
* Node.js
  * Node provides Javascript on the backend.  After taking AIT last semester, Node is a very powerful tool I have in my back pocket.  The ability to quickly prototype web servers and sites allows me to harness the internet as a tool for my creations.  I just finished using Node at a game jam, where I used it to provide a backend for my group's game.  The alternative to Node would've been writing a PHP server or something--who has time for that nowadays?
* Git
  * Git is a version control system, but you know that.  Despite all the headaches that come with it, enables teamwork on software like no other package.  Without git, I wouldn't be able to work as effectively on a team with other developers, and my games would suffer for it.  Alternatives would be Mercurial, collab, or subversion.
* VLC
  * VLC is an open source video player.  Its open source nature means it supports pretty much every video format imaginable.  This was immensely handy when I wanted to play copies I found of the original, unaltered Star Wars trilogy over break, and so deserves a shoutout.  An alternative would be DivX or even RealPlayer--who wants to go back to those dark days?

## Questions for Tom 
* What are your opinions on the Free Software movement and their opposition to open-source and paid software?
* What do you think inspires open-source developers to participate in RedHat projects, of which they won't see any of the profits?
