---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

(NOTE: This entry was posted a week late, as I hadn't been assigned an issue in time for the original deadline)

## Fixing the Course Website

[I added a contribution guide](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/83).

Here are the steps I took to fix my issue:
* First I forked the site's repository to my own account, and cloned my new repo to my computer.
* `touch CONTRIBUTING.md`, then edited it in Sublime
* After adding some content, realized I never added the file to git: 
  * `git add CONTRIBUTING.md`
  * `git commit -m "add CONTRIBUTING.md"`
  * `git push origin master`
* I did the above process twice more, as I added more detail to the guide.  This created 3 total commits.
* To ensure I had any changes made to the original repo while I was working, I synced my fork to the original repo.
  * First I set the original repo as my upstream remote:
    * `git remote add upstream https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18.git`
  * Then I fetched from upstream and merged in the changes (turns out there weren't any--still better I checked!)
    * `git fetch upstream`
    * `git checkout gh-pages` 
    * `git merge upstream/gh-pages`
* Since there were no changes, I was ready to make my pull request, which I did through Github.

## CodeTriage

Signing up for CodeTriage, I subscribed to issues from the projects Atom, Godot, and Phaser.

Issues I've looked at:
 * [**Phaser**](https://github.com/photonstorm/phaser-ce/issues/126): This was a feature request.  Honestly seemed like the sort of problem that should be tackled by a project's architect, not some random person on the internet.
 * [**Atom**](https://github.com/atom/atom/issues/16432): The poster of this issue has been unresponsive to requests for more info about his bug, so it seems like this will be hard to tackle.
 * [**Godot**](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/14481): This was a great example of a pull request: the contributor added a useful feature and was responsive to follow-ups, there was discussion about best approaches, and the feature was scheduled for a merge.
 
 
