---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Picking an Open-Source Project
* When I'm selecting an open-source project to work on, I'm looking for a project I find interesting, with an active dev community that is
welcoming to newcomers, that has unsolved problems within my reach.
* My strengths include hard technical skills such as web development and graphics programming, as well as the ability to think like a 
designer as I approach new additions or edits to the program.
* I hope to learn more about programming within the subfields that the project spans.  I also hope to hone my skills working on a 
programming team--meaning writing readable code, clear communication, and all the other soft skills that are easy to ignore but crucial
to good development.
* I'm worried about learning a massive codebase before I can make a fix.  I'm also worried about issues being out of my reach.  I guess
mostly, I'm just intimidated by the idea of contributing to large projects.

## Contributions
I made no new contributions this week.  What follows is a list of all contributions I should have already from earlier assignments:
Course Website: 
* [Issue posted: Improper Use of Semicolons](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/39)
* [Commented: Midterm Date](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/38)
* [PR Submitted: Contribution Guide](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/83)
Wikipedia:
* Contributed to LADA Ellada's page
* [My Contribution Page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/BaronMarquis)

## Questions for Aurelia
* What does being a Mozilla employee entail?
* What is Mozilla's "corporate culture" like?
* How is a non-profit software company structured?


