---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


## The Cathedral vs. The Bazaar
* The "cathedral" method of software development is characterized by full-featured but spaced-out releases.  Only a select group of developers are able to access source code between releases, leading to an insular development environment.
* The "bazaar" is, by contrast, developed entirely in the open.  Anyone can contribute to the project over the Internet, and releases come frequently as a result. 

I'm more comfortable coding in the cathedral style, but I can tell that has a negative affect on my work.  It's very easy to want to build everything all at once, showing nobody anything along the way.  This protects you from criticism, and thus I think I'm subconsciously led towards that model as a bad habit.  I want to break that.  The bazaar style, being so tightly iterative, leads to more feedback with which to make the project better, and smaller releases help you "fail fast."  Since I primarily make games, which are heavily dependent on playtesting to shape their design and therefore their code, I have to get better at adopting the bazaar style, even if I'm the only one in it.  I recognize it's not quite the same setup as OSS development, but this principle applies to both.

## Best Lessons
> Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.

Very much in line with the "fail fast" aspect of bazaar-style development that I described my appreciation for earlier.  90% of projects out there, even creative ones, can be improved by listening to the people you're making it for--although it's a painful process for many of us.  I haven't gotten there yet, but I hope that as I get more used to short iteration cycles and open development the pain fades for me.

> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.

This is one of the great benefits of open development.  Other people will come at your project with ideas and visions.  Many of them won't make sense, but sometimes someone will give you an insight you'd have never had otherwise.  As Raymond describes in the essay, popclient went through a massive overhaul in functionality, which led to a vast amount of benefits in usability and performance.  He found a new way into the problem, followed it through, and reaped the rewards.
